docs/.plan.md, before:

# TODOs

1. [DONE] Create logic workflow documentation for the complete training process, with signalling and management.

   1. Add provision for independent epochs per round in workflow within sub-clusters

2. [DONE] Design template of job config

3. Create LogiCon server (Later will develop blockchain-based LogiCon). [This will contain logic, signalling and state variables for a job]

4. Create Controller server to host CLI command center for loading and controlling jobs. [ Controller publishes jobs on the LogiCon Server, where the clients and workers simultaneously fetch them and start working on them]

5. Dataset Distribution Server (datastore) will host dataset and will distribute chunks to designated clients.

---

6. Complete logic workflow for multi-worker consensus management. (in theory, and verify it)

7. Implement the logic flow for client nodes.

8. Implement the logic flow for worker nodes.

9. Test implementation of single worker setup on MNIST.

10. Test implementation of multi-worker setup on MNIST.

Commit message:

Reading Job Config Modules done

docs/.plan.md, after:

# TODOs

1. [DONE] Create logic workflow documentation for the complete training process, with signalling and management.

   1. [DONE] Add provision for independent epochs per round in workflow within sub-clusters

2. [DONE] Design template of job config

3. Create Controller server to host CLI command center for loading and controlling jobs. [ Controller publishes jobs on the LogiCon Server, where the clients and workers simultaneously fetch them and start working on them]

   1. Create logic to consume job config and create meaningful executions of dataset prep.

   2. Create logic to consume job config and create appriopriate jobs and sub-jobs

4. Create LogiCon server (Later will develop blockchain-based LogiCon). [This will contain logic, signalling and state variables for a job]

5. Dataset Distribution Server (datastore) will host dataset and will distribute chunks to designated clients.

---

6. Complete logic workflow for multi-worker consensus management. (in theory, and verify it)

7. Implement the logic flow for client nodes.

8. Implement the logic flow for worker nodes.

9. Test implementation of single worker setup on MNIST.

10. Test implementation of multi-worker setup on MNIST.
